GOVERNMENT OF MIZORAM
HEALTH AND FAMILY WELFARE DEPARTMENT
EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF LOWER DIVISION CLERK - 2023
Full Mark: 200 marks; Time allowed: 3 hours
PAPER - II
(All questions are multiple choice questions. Attempt all questions. Each question carries 2 marks)
(SIMPLE ARITHMETIC - 100 MARKS)
1. How many numbers are Odd in the following numbers:
121, 212, 414, 373, 124, 2288, 2377, 2654, 2779
(A) 4 (B) 5 (D) 7
2. Which of the following is not a prime number?
(A) 13 (B) 87 (C) 131 (D) 277
3. Simplify: 1/25 of 100 × 2.55 = ?
(A) 10.02 (B) 10.20
(C) 102 (D) 2.50
4. What is the sum of all the factors of 200?
(A) 465 (B) 354
(C) 268 (D) 186
5. What is the greatest number that divides 1241 and 949 without leaving a remainder?
(A) 146 (B) 73
C) 173 (D) 196
6. Find the smallest five digit number which is divisible by 279.
(A) 10001 (B) 10028 (C) 10044 (D) 10079
7. Find the LCM of 10/21, 20/63 and 55/56.
(A) 7/220 (B) 110/7 (C) 7/110 (D) 220/7
8. What is 80% of 85?
(A) 64 (B) 65 (C) 67 (D) 68
9. of of 400=?
(A) 50 (B) 25 (C) 35
(D) 75
10. If 8080 is divided in the ratio 1:2: 5, it will be 1010: 2020 :
(A) 5050 (B) 4040 (C) 3030 (D) 4505
11. Sanga bought 4 apples for Rs. 12. He ate one apple and sold the remaining for
Rs. 4 per apple. How much is his gain or loss percent?
(A) 10% gain (B) 10% loss (C) No gain or loss (D) None of these
12. An article is sold at Rs. 240 and the profit is 20%. Find the cost price.
(A) Rs. 180 (B) Rs. 200 (C) Rs. 220 (D) Rs. 260
13. Convert 100 m/sec to km/h.
(A) 360 km/h (B) 36 km/h
(C) 3.6 km/h
(D) 10 km/h
14. A man reaches his destination of 1 km far in 20 minutes. Find his speed.
(A) 6 km/h (B) 5 km/h
(C)4 km/h
(D) 3 km/h
15. Lala's monthly income is Rs. 1400. What would be his average monthly
expenditure if he could save Rs. 7200 per year?
(A) Rs. 750 (B) Rs. 800 (C) Rs. 850 (D) Rs. 900
16. The average temperature of Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday was 40° C and
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday was 45° C. Find the temperature of Thursday.
(A) 45°C (B) 42° C (C) 35° C (D) 40° C
17. The third proportion of 7 and 14 is:
(A) 28 (B) 35 (C) 21 (D) 17
18. What is C's share if Rs. 53 is divided among A, B and C such that A gets Rs. 7
more than B and B gets Rs. 8 more than C?
(A) Rs. 18 (B) Rs. 25 (C) Rs. 10 (D) Rs. 17
19. If 8 men can do a piece of work in 6 days, how many days will 1 man take to do
the work?
(A) 6 days (B) 8 days (C) 16 days (D) 48 days
20. Find the simple interest on Rs. 800 for 3 years at 5% per annum.
(A) Rs. 110 (B) Rs. 120 (C) Rs. 125 (D) Rs. 130
21. In what time will Rs 5000 amount to Rs 6000 at (A) 5 years (B) 4 years (C) 3 years
5% per annum simple interest?
(D) 2 years
22. If Lala said to Sanga, "If you give me Rs. 900, I shall be twice as rich as you are."
Sanga said to Lala, "If you give me Rs. 100, I shall be three times as rich as you
are." Find the amount of money Lala has.
(A) Rs. 700 (B) Rs. 850 (C) Rs. 1300 (D) Rs. 1700
23. A cycle running at the speed of 40 km/hr reached its destination in 2 hours. At what
speed should he run to reach the same destination in one hour?
(A) 80 km/hr (B) 75 km/hr (C) 70 km/hr (D) 60 km/hr
24. The product of Mawia's age 5 years ago and his age 9 years later is 51. Find his
present age.
(A) 12 years (B) 9 years
(C) 8 years
(D) 7 years
25. In a set, A = {a, b, c) and B = {c, d, 1, 3), the cardinal number of A U B is:
(A) 3 (B) 6 (C) 7
(D) infinite
2
26. In a group of 100 men, 70 can speak English and 45 can speak Mizo. How many
can speak both English and Mizo?
(A) 15 (B) 20 (C) 30 (D) 55
27. Find the 8*h term of the series 3, 6, 12,....
(A) 72 (B) 135 (C) 254 (D) 384
28. Find the value of x if 3, x, 0.75 are in Geometric Progression.
(A) 2.75 (B) 2 (C) 1.75 (D) 1.5
29. Area of a rectangle is 128 cm?. Its breadth is 8 cm. Find its length.
(A) 12 cm (B) 14 cm (C) 16 cm (D) 18 cm
30. Area of a circle is 616 cm. Find its circumference.
(A) 96 cm (B) 88 cm (C) 72 cm (D) 14 cm
31.2/3 of an estate is Rs. 44000. What is 3/11 of it?
(A) Rs. 18000 (B) Rs. 9500 (C) Rs. 5800 (D) Rs. 24500
31. In a library, ½ of the books are story books, ¾ are reference books and the
remaining 300 books are physics. How many of them are reference books?
(A) 1000 (B) 900 (C) 800 (D) 700
32. Find the smallest number which must be subtracted from 52 in order to make it
exactly divisible by 7?
(A) 1 (B) 2 (C) 3 (D) 4
33. Two numbers are in the ratio 15: 11, their HCF is 13. The numbers are:
(A) 195, 143 (B) 105, 77 (C) 75, 55 (D) 15, 11
34. In an election, a candidate securing 62% vote is elected with a majority of 144
votes. Find the total number of votes secured by the successful candidate.
(A) 258 (B) 296 (C) 354
(D) 372
35. A man bought 5 oranges for a rupee. How many for a rupee should he sell to gain
25%?
(A) 3 oranges
(B) 4 oranges
(C) 5 oranges (D) 6 oranges
36. The population of a town is 16000 and its annual increase rate is 5%. How many
will be the number of populations after 3 years?
(A) 18250 (B) 18522 (C) 18750 (D) 25000
37. A reduction of 20% in the price of rice enables a man to buy 10 kg more rice for
Rs. 1600. Find the reduced price of rice per kilogram.
(A) Rs. 32 (B) Rs. 25 (C) Rs. 15 (D) Rs. 12
38. By selling a book for Rs. 858, Lala gains 10%. Find his gain or loss percent when
he sells it at Rs. 819.
(A) 5% (B) 7% (C) 10% (D) 12%
39. A shopkeeper buys eggs at a rate of 7 for a rupee and then sells at a profit of 40%.
How many eggs does he sell for a rupee?
(A) 3 eggs (B) 4 eggs (C) 5 eggs (D) 6 eggs
40. A merchant professes to sell his goods at cost price but uses a weight of 800 gram
instead of a kilogram. Find his gain percent.
(A) 12% (B) 15% (C) 20% (D) 25%
41. Distance travel by a man in 20 seconds at the rate of 300 m/sec is
(A) 5 km (B) 6 km (C) 7 km (D) 8 km
42. A train whose length is 160 m is running at the rate of 36 km/h. How long will it
take to pass a pole?
(A) 16 sec (B) 15 sec (C) 14 sec (D) 13 sec
43. Out of 3 numbers, the first is 3 times the third and the second is twice the third. The
average of the three numbers is 12. Find the first number.
(A) 18 (B) 15 (C) 12 (D) 6
44. A bag contains 25 p, 10 p and 5 p coins in the ratio 1: 2: 3. If their total value is
Rs. 24, the number of 10 p coin is
(A) 40 coins (B) 60 coins (C) 80 coins (D) 90 coins
45. A tank is filled in 8 hours but takes 2 hours longer to fill because of a leak in its
bottom. If the tank is filled, the leak will empty it in how many hours?
(A) 30 hours (B) 40 hours (C) 45 hours (D) 50 hours
46. In what ratio must rice at Rs. 8 per kg be mixed with rice at Rs. 12 per kg so as to
produce a mixture worth Rs. 9 per kg?
(A) 3: 1 (B) 1: 3 (C) 2:1
(D) 1:2
47. The diagonal of a rectangular floor is 29 m and its breadth is 20m. (A) 35 m (B) 25 m (C) 23 m (D) 21 m
Find it length.
48. The area of a circular field is 138600 m?. Find the cost of fencing it at the rate of
20 paise per meter.
(A) Rs. 178 (B) Rs. 196 (C) Rs. 246 (D) Rs. 264
49. A room is 15 m long, 4 m broad and 5 m high. Find the cost of painting its four
walls at 50 paise per meter.
(A) Rs. 85 (B) Rs. 90 (C) Rs. 95 (D) Rs. 98
4
(BASIC COMPUTER KNOWLEDGE - 100 MARKS)
50. Who is the father of computer science?
(A) Alan Turing (B) Charles Babbage
(C) Simur Cray (D) Augusta Adaming
51. Which of the following controls the process of interaction between the user and
the operating system?
(A) Compiler. (B) Loader (C) User interface
(D) Platform
52. What is the combination of hardware and software that facilitates the sharing of
information between computing devices?
(A) Network (B) Peripheral (C) Object code
(D) Source code
53. Files are organized by storing them in
(A) archives (B) folders
(C) compress (D) lists
54. VGA stands for
(A) Visual Graphics Array
(C) Video Graphics Array (D) Video Graphics Adapter
(B) Volatile Graphics Array
55. The appearance of typed character is known as
(A) size (B) font (C) format (D) color
56. Where are data and programme stored when the processor uses them?
(A) Disk memory (C) Main memory (B) Secondary memory
(D) Programme memory
57. To find out possible faults and their causes, which of the following is used?
(A) System software (B) Direct module access
(C) Boot diskettes (D) Diagnostic software
58. Which of the following is not an anti-virus software?
(A) NAV (B) F-Prot (C) McAfee (D) Oracle
59. Which of the following converts an image of text into a machine readable text format?
(A) OMR (B) OCR (C) MICR (D) All of these
60. Which printer is a high-end printer?
(A) Inkjet (B) Dot Matrix (C) Thermal (D) Laser
61. If you want to run the selected command, which key will you use?
(A) Control (B) Shift (C) Enter (D) Home
62. The CPU and memory are located in the
(A) System tray (B) Storage device (C) motherboard (D) All of these
63. Which program compresses large files into a small file?
(A) WinZip (B) WinShrink (C) WinStyle (D) All of these
64. 'My Computer' was introduced from
_
(A) Windows 3.1 (B) Windows 95 (C) Windows 98 (D) Windows 2000
5
65. The operating system creates
(A) virtual device
(C) virtual space
from the physical computer.
(B) virtual computer
(D) All of these
66. The Banker's algorithm is used to
(A) select deadlock
(C) avoid deadlock
(B) rectify deadlock
(D) create deadlock
67. A driver is a controller.
(A) software (B) hardware (C) data
(D) backup
68. From where do you change mouse setting?
(A) Control Panel ￫ Mouse
(C) Setting ￫ Mouse
(B) Hardware setting
(D) None of these
69. The memory resident portion of operating system is called
(A) Registry (B) API (C) CMOS
(D) Kernel
70. In MS Word, Ruler is used to
(A) set Tab (B) set Indents (C) change margins (D) All of these
71. What is used to measure the size of font in a word document?
(A) Height (B) Width (C) Number (D) Point
72. Which is used to control the size of space between each character in MS Word?
(A) Line spacing (B) Font (C) Toolbar (D) Character spacing
73. Which will add color, greys, or patterns to paragraph to emphasize text in a
document?
(A) Border (B) Shading (C) Zoom (D) Highlighting
74. Which action removes text from a document and place it in a clipboard?
(A) Cut (B) Copy (C) Paste (D) Format
75. What is a Font?
(A) Design of a character
(C) Italicized (B) Word formatting
(D) Type setting
76. If you want to keep track of different editions of a document, which features is
used?
(A) Edition (B) Track change (C) Versions (D) All of these
77. Which key do you press to advance to the next cell in a word table?
(A) Enter (B) Shift (C) Tab
(D) End
78. In a spreadsheet, which is pressed to get to cell Al?
(A) Home (B) Ctrl+Home (C) Alt+Home
(D) Shift+Home
79. In Excel, a function inside another function is called a
(A) Nested (B) Rounded (C) Linked
function. (D) Sub
6
80. Which is the default header for a worksheet in Excel?
(A) Sheet name (B) Your name (C) Date (D) Time
81. In Excel, the appearance of a worksheet can be quickly changed from
(A) Edit (B) Review (C) Auto Format (D) Tools
82. In Excel, what is the comments that are added in a cell called?
(A) Cell comment (B) Cell extra (C) Cell tip (D) Soft tip
83. Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) is an example of which connection?
(A) Network (B) Wireless (C) Glow (D) Broadband
84. The amount of information that can be transmitted at a given time on internet is
measured by
(A) Megabyte (B) Bandwidth (C) Router (D) Bridge
85. A
(A) bus 87. HUB is a
(A) unicast
network requires human intervention to route signals.
(B) ring (C) star (D) T-switched
device. (B) multicast (C) broadcast (D) None of these
86. Protocol is a set of rules governing a time sequence of event that take place
between:
(A) modems (B) peers (C) interface (D) routers
87. Which language is used to make animation and video games in browser?
(A) Java (B) HTML (C) C Programing (D) None of these
88. The process of tetching all the web pages linked to a website is called
(A) Fetching (B) Processing (C) Crawling (D) Indexing
89. Which of the following is commonly found in webpages?
(A) Hyperlinks (B) Internet (C) Intranet (D) All of these
90. What tag is used to display a picture in a webpage?
(A) pic (B) src (C) dispic
(D) img
91. Which oft kelloing if chomb browser Firefos
(A) File Explorer (B) Chrome (C) Firefox
(D) Opera
92. For easy location of a website, the site must be registered with various
(A) mail servers (B) search engines (C) online services (D) service providers
93. Which of the following among the three components of email message?
(A) Envelope (B) Header (C) Body (D) All of these
94. An email client need to know the
of its initial SMTP server.
(A) IP address (B) Client address
(C) Mail box (D) URL
7
95. Unwelcome email is also called Spam.
(A) False (B) True
(C) Both A & B (D) None of these
96. In PowerPoint, which of the following is used to insert a new slide?
(D) Ctri+W
(A) CtrI+N (B) CtrI+M (C) Ctri+V
97. What should be used to add text in PowerPoint slide?
(A) Text Box (B) Note Box (C) Comment Box (D) Bullets
98. PowerPoint slides can have
(A) clipart (B) drawn art (C) graphs (D) All of these
OOOK OXXXXX00000XXXX